__What does this PR do?__
- [ ] update the official architecture
- [ ] add more documentation (for discussion, an alternative or fill a gap)
- [ ] clean up or corrections
- [ ] other

__Is there a Jira issue or story associated?__

__Did this arise from a meeting? Who was involved in the discussion? What was resolved?__

__What problem does this address? What are main drivers behind it? (Short version,
possibly with link to Jira for detail.)__

__Are there gaps yet to be addressed? Are they separate concerns (provide links to
Jira) or they need to be addressed in this PR?__

__Is there specific part of the PR which should receive increased attention?__

If this PR updates the official architecture, questions below apply, otherwise they 
are optional:

__Does the content of this PR need an accompanying ADR document? If no - why?__

__Is this an addition or an alteration?__

__What options were considered? What are pros and cons of them? If only single option 
was considered - why?__

__Who should be involved in the process of making the final decision?__


