ZKIR Version 2
==============

# Overview

ZKIR (**Z**ero **K**nowledge **I**ntermediate **R**epresentation) is used as the interface between smart contracts and the Midnight proof system.
The Compact compiler generates ZKIR files for a contract as one of the compiler outputs.
These files are used as input to a separate binary (`zkir`) to generate prover and verifier keys.
The verifier keys are stored on-chain when a contract is deployed.
The prover keys are used to construct zkSNARKs ("proofs") that are included as part of a transaction.
Before a transaction is made to the network, ZKIR files are sent to the proof server along with the transaction's private inputs, in order to construct zkSNARKs to be verified on-chain.

There are two different encodings of ZKIR.
There is a [JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) encoding which is produced by the Compact compiler and used as input to the `zkir` binary to generate prover and verifier keys.
There is an equivalent binary encoding which is produced as an output by the `zkir` binary and used as input to the proof server to generate zkSNARKs.
There is a separate pair of ZKIR files for each exported circuit in a contract.

Both encodings of ZKIR are considered an [application binary interface (ABI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface).
They are versioned together using [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), the current major version is version 2.
(Version 1 was not publicly released.)

# The Memory

A ZKIR circuit consists of a linear sequence of *instructions* which describe a program for constructing a *memory*.
The memory is a growable array of *locations* indexed by 32-bit unsigned integers.
The memory has a *length*, the initial length is 0 (the memory is initially empty).
The memory is extended by incrementing the length by one and by storing into the index equal to the length before incrementing.
Each instruction has a variable number of *inputs* and *outputs*.
Inputs are explicitly given in an instruction's encoding, and they can be of various kinds as described below.
Outputs are implicitly determined by an instruction's position in the instruction sequence.

An instruction causes the next available locations in the memory to be filled with the instruction's outputs in order.
One kind of input is a memory index, which represents a use of the output of some previous instruction in the sequence.

The values that can be in a memory location are described below.

# File Header

[TODO]

# Instructions

An instruction in the JSON format is given by a JSON object with a member named `"op"` whose value is an operation name string.
In the binary format, instructions have a variable length encoding that starts with a byte that determines the operation.
An instruction has a fixed number of inputs and outputs, determined by the operation.

## Instruction Inputs

An instruction explicitly names a number of inputs.
Inputs can have various kinds.
The number and kind of an instruction's inputs depends on the operation.

- *Index* is an unsigned 32-bit value that is an index into the memory.
  This index must exist in the memory, i.e., it must have been an output of a previous instruction in the sequence.
- *Array* (e.g., in `hash_to_curve`)
- *Maybe* (e.g., in `pi_skip`)
- *u32*
- *Fr* (e.g., in `load_imm`)

## Instruction Outputs

An instruction has a number of outputs, possibly zero.
The number of outputs depends on the operation.

## Example

The `add` instruction has a pair of inputs `a` and `b` which are both memory indexes.

The JSON encoding is a JSON object with three named members:

- `"op"` is the operation, which is always the string `"add"`
- `"a"` is the first (left) input, which is a memory index represented by a JSON number
- `"b"` is the second (right) input, which is also a memory index

This is denoted in the reference below as:

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"add"`, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

The Binary encoding of the `add` instruction consists of the hexadecimal byte value 0x11.
This is followed by the binary encoding of the inputs `a` and `b`, in that order, as (fixed length little endian?) unsigned 32-bit values.

This is denoted in the reference below as:

**Binary:** 0x11 a:u32 b:u32

# Two-phase Evaluation

ZKIR circuits are evaluated in two *phases*.
The first phase is the *rehearsal* phase, which evaluates the circuit given a (partial) proof *preimage* to construct a complete memory.
During the rehearsal phase, the proof preimage is checked for well-formedness.
The second phase is the *circuit* phase, which is given the memory produced by the rehearsal phase and uses the `midnight-circuits` library to construct a ZK proof.

## The Rehearsal Phase

The rehearsal phase is given a proof preimage, which was produced as a result of evaluating the circuit off chain.
In the Midnight network with the Compact programming language, this off-chain execution happens by executing JavaScript code generated by the Compact compiler to build a proof preimage.

The proof preimage consists of:

- **inputs**: the inputs to the circuit.
  In the Compact programming language, these are the circuit's arguments that it was invoked with.
- **private transcript**: the private transcript, or private inputs, are the witness return values for witnesses that were called while evaluating the circuit off chain.
- **public transcript inputs**: the public transcript inputs, or public inputs, are public inputs to the circuit.
  In the Midnight network, this is in practice the Impact VM instructions that were executed to perform ledger state accesses and updates.
- **public transcript outputs**: the public transcript outputs, or public outputs, are the results of ledger state accesses that were observed during off-chain execution.

Programs in Compact can have conditional branches.
During off-chain execution, not all branches will be taken, depending on the values of branch conditions.
Therefore, the private inputs and public outputs will only be partial; values will be missing from them for branches that were not taken.
However, the ZK proof needs to prove that values exist for these branches as well.
So a major reason for the rehearsal phase of ZKIR evaluation is to construct a full memory that contains values for all the private inputs and public outputs that exist in the circuit.

### The Rehearsal Memory

Values in the rehearsal phase's memory are values in the underlying prime field.
Field values are non-negative.
There is a maximum field value, and arithmetic on field values is modulo the maximum value plus one.

### Circuit Outputs

The circuit has a number of outputs.
These are the results (return values) of the circuit, if any.
Note that these are different from public outputs (see below).
The rehearsal phase builds up a vector of the circuit's outputs.

### Private Inputs

Private inputs are fetched from the proof preimage and written into the rehearsal memory with the `private_input` instruction.
It is possibly conditionally executed.
It has a single optional input *guard* index.
If there is no guard, then the instruction is unconditionally executed.
It produces a single output.

During the rehearsal phase, an index is maintained into the private transcript.
In the case where there is no guard, or where the value in the memory at the guard index is `1`, then the output of the `private_input` instruction is the private input at the current private transcript index, and the private transcript index is incremented.
In the case where the value in the memory at the guard index is `0`, then the output of the `private_input` instruction is `0`, and the private transcript index is not incremented.

### Public Outputs

Public outputs are fetched from the proof preimage and written into the rehearsal memory with the `public_input` [sic] instruction.
It is possibly conditionally executed.
It has a single optional input guard index and it produces a single output.
If there is no guard, then the instruction is unconditionally executed.

During the rehearsal phase, an index is maintained into the public transcript outputs.
In the case where there is no guard or where the value in the memory at the guard index is `1`, then the output of the `public_input` instruction is the public output at the current public transcript output index, and this index is incremented.
In the case where the value in the memory at the guard index is `0`, then the output of the `public_input` instruction is `0` and the public transcript output index is not incremented.

### Public Inputs

Public inputs are implemented by a pair of ZKIR instructions, `declare_pub_input` and `pi_skip`.
During the rehearsal phase, a complete vector of public inputs is built.
This includes the public inputs for branches that were taken, whose values are in the proof preimage's public inputs.
It also includes public inputs for branches that were not taken.
Additionally, a vector of public input *skips* is built that is a vector of optional counts.
Each element of the public input skip vector represents a corresponding `pi_skip` instruction in the ZKIR circuit.
A count in the public input skips indicates a sequence of public inputs that were skipped during off-chain execution.
No count (`None`) indicates a sequence of public inputs that were not skipped.

Each `declare_pub_input` instruction is covered by exactly one `pi_skip` instruction that follows it somewhere in the ZKIR instruction sequence.
A `pi_skip` instruction can cover multiple `declare_pub_input` instructions.

The `declare_pub_input` instruction has a single input index and no output.
It specifies that the value in the memory at the input index is the next public input.
`declare_pub_input` has the effect of appending the value in the memory at the input index to the end of the public input vector and increasing the vector's length by one.
There is a index into the partial public inputs in the proof preimage, which is unconditionally incremented by `declare_pub_input`, optimistically assuming the public input was produced by the circuit's off-chain execution.

The `pi_skip` instruction is possibly conditionally executed.
It has an optional input guard index, and an input literal *count* telling how many public inputs to skip.
In the case where there is no guard or where the value in the memory at the guard index is `1`, then the public inputs were *not* skipped.
Then the `pi_skip` instruction causes the rehearsal phase to verify that the previous consecutive *count* values in the proof preimage's public inputs match exactly the ones that were appended to the complete public inputs.
A `None` optional skip is appended to the vector of public input skips (these public inputs were not skipped).
In the case where the value in the memory at the guard index is `0`, then the public inputs were skipped during off-chain execution of the circuit.
Then the `pi_skip` instruction simply decrements the index into the proof preimage's public inputs by the count, "undoing" the optimistic assumption the the public input was produced by the circuit's off-chain execution.
A skip with the given count is appended to the vector of public input skips (these public inputs were skipped).

## The Circuit Phase

The circuit phase is given the complete memory produced by the rehearsal phase and the complete public inputs.
It uses the `midnight-circuits` library to construct a zkSNARK.

We embrace the "circuit" metaphor to describe the semantics of the circuit phase evaluation.
Operations such as arithmetic are called *gates* with inputs and outputs.
The inputs and outputs of gates are called *wires*.
A special kind of gate is a *constraint*, which requires the input(s) to satisfy some property without necessarily producing an output.

### The Circuit Memory

Values in the circuit phase's memory are wires which are the output of some gate.

# Instruction Reference

Notation [TODO]

## add(a, b)

Adds a pair of field values in the prime field.
*a* and *b* are memory indexes.  There is one output.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"add"`, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x11 a:u32 b:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:**

`<add(a,b), M> ==> M ++ (M[a]+M[b])`

The field values at indexes *a* and *b* are read from the memory.
The memory is extended with the result of adding them in the prime field.

**Circuit semantics:**

`<add(a,b), C, M> ==> C U {ADD(M[a],M[b],w)}; M ++ w`

The wires at indexes *a* and *b* are read from the memory.
An `ADD` gate is built using the input wires at *a* and *b* and with a fresh output.
The memory is extended with the output wire of the `ADD` gate.

## assert

No outputs.  Asserts that a condition has the canonical true value `1`.  The
result is undefined if the condition's value is not `0` or `1`.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"assert"`, `"cond"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x00 cond:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at index *cond* is read from the
memory.  The operation fails (the rehearsal phase is aborted) if the value is 0.

**Circuit semantics:** The wire at index *cond* is read from the memory.  A
constraint is added that the value on the wire is non-zero.

## cond_select

One output.  Conditionally select between a pair of input values based on the
value of a condition.  The result is undefined if the condition's value is not
`0` or `1`.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"cond_select"`, `"bit"`: Index, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x01 bit:u32 a:u32 b:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field values at indexes *bit*, *a*, and *b* are
read from the memory; the memory is extended with the value at *a* if the value
at *bit* was `1` and the value at *b* if the value at *bit* was `0`.

**Circuit semantics:** the wires at indexes *bit*, *a*, and *b* are read from
the memory.  An `is_zero` gate is built with the input at *bit*.  The output of
this gate is used as the input of a `select` gate to choose between the inputs
at *a* and *b*.  The memory is extended with the output wire of the `select`
gate.

## constrain_bits

No outputs.  Constrains a value in the memory to fit into a set number of bits.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"constrain_bits"`, `"var"`: Index, `"bits"`: u32 }

**Binary:** 0x02 var:u32 bits:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at index *var* is read from the memory.
The operation fails if any bit at bit position *bits* or higher is non-zero.

**Circuit semantics:** the wire at index *var* is read from the memory.  A
constraint is added that the value on the wire fits in *bits* or fewer.

## constrain_eq

No outputs.  Constrains a pair of values in the memory to be equal.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"constrain_eq"`, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x03 a:u32 b:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field values at indexes *a* and *b* are read from
the memory.  They are compared for equality and the operation fails if they are
not equal.

**Circuit semantics:** the wires at indexes *a* and *b* are read from the
memory.  A constraint is added that they are equal.

## constrain\_to\_boolean

No outputs.  Constrains a value in the memory to be one of the canonical boolean
values `0` (false) or `1` (true).

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"constrain_to_boolean"`, `"var"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x04 var:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at *var* is read from the memory.  The
operation fails if the value is not `0` or `1`.

**Circuit semantics:** the wire at index *var* is read from the memory.  A
constraint is added that the value on the wire is either `0` or `1`.

## copy

One output.  Duplicates a value in the memory.  This instruction is not
necessary but it can be useful in some cases, and it can simplify the generation
of ZKIR.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"copy"`, `"var"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x05 var:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at *var* is read from the memory.  The
memory is extended with this value.

**Circuit semantics:** the wire at *var* is read from the memory.  The memory is
extended with this (same) wire.

## declare\_pub\_input

No outputs.  Declares a value in the memory as the next public input.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"declare_pub_input"`, `"var"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x06 var:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the rehearsal phase builds up a complete vector of
public input field values.  The field value at *var* is read from the memory.
The public input vector is extended with this value.  The rehearsal phase
maintains a current index into the proof preimage's (partial) public input
vector.  This index is incremented, optimistically assuming that the declared
public input was in a conditional branch that was taken during the off-chain
execution of the circuit.

**Circuit semantics:** the circuit phase builds up a vector of public inputs.
The wire at *var* is read from the memory.  The public input vector is extended
with this wire.  A constraint is added that it the value on the wire is equal to
the field value at the same index in the public inputs computed during the
rehearsal phase.

## div\_mod\_power\_of\_two

Two outputs, the quotient and remainder when dividing a field value by a power
of two.  This allows splitting a field value's binary representation into high
(quotient) and low (remainder) parts.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"div_mod_power_of_two"`, `"var"`: Index, `"bits"`: u32 }

**Binary:** 0x0d var:u32 bits:u32

**Outputs:** Two outputs, `var >> bits`, and `var & ((1 << bits) - 1)`.

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at index *var* is read from the memory.
The memory is extended with the quotient and remainder when the value is divided
by 2^*bits*.  The quotient will be the value shifted right by *bits* and the
remainder will be the value logically ANDed with the bit mask 2^*bits*-1.

**Circuit semantics:** the wire at index *var* is read from the memory.  The
expected quotient and remainder field values are read from the memory that was
produced by the rehearsal phase.  Pairwise constraints are added that every bit
of the value on the wire is equal to the corresponding bit of (quotient <<
*bits*) + remainder.  The memory is extended with wires carrying the quotient
and remainder computed by the rehearsal phase.

## ec_add

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"ec_add"`, `"a_x"`: Index, `"a_y"`: Index, `"b_x"`: Index, `"b_y"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x08 a\_x:u32 a\_y:u32 b\_x:u32 b\_y:u32

Adds two elliptic curve points. UB if either is not a valid curve point.

**Outputs:** Two elements, `c_x` and `c_y`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::EcAdd { a_x, a_y, b_x, b_y } => memory.extend(from_point(
        idx_point(&memory, *a_x, *a_y)? + idx_point(&memory, *b_x, *b_y)?,
    )),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::EcAdd { a_x, a_y, b_x, b_y } => {
        let a = ecc_from_parts(
            std,
            layouter,
            workbench,
            idx(&memory, *a_x)?,
            idx(&memory, *a_y)?,
        )?;
        let b = ecc_from_parts(
            std,
            layouter,
            workbench,
            idx(&memory, *b_x)?,
            idx(&memory, *b_y)?,
        )?;
        let c = std.ecc_chip().add(layouter, &a, &b)?;
        mem_push(c.x(), &mut memory)?;
        mem_push(c.y(), &mut memory)?;
    }


## ec_mul

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"ec_mul"`, `"a_x"`: Index, `"a_y"`: Index, `"scalar"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x09 a\_x:u32 a\_y:u32 scalar:u32

Multiplies an elliptic curve point by a scalar. UB if it is not a valid curve
point.

**Outputs:** Two elements, `c_x` and `c_y`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::EcMul { a_x, a_y, scalar } => memory.extend(from_point(
        idx_point(&memory, *a_x, *a_y)? * idx(&memory, *scalar)?,
    )),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::EcMul { a_x, a_y, scalar } => {
        let a = ecc_from_parts(
            std,
            layouter,
            workbench,
            idx(&memory, *a_x)?,
            idx(&memory, *a_y)?,
        )?;
        let scalar = std.ecc_chip().convert(layouter, idx(&memory, *scalar)?)?;
        let b = std.ecc_chip().msm(layouter, &[scalar], &[a])?;
        mem_push(b.x(), &mut memory)?;
        mem_push(b.y(), &mut memory)?;
    }


## ec\_mul\_generator

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"ec_mul_generator"`, `"scalar"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x0a scalar:u32

Multiplies the group generator by a scalar.

**Outputs:** Two elements, `c_x` and `c_y`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::EcMulGenerator { scalar } => memory.extend(from_point(
        EmbeddedGroupAffine::generator() * idx(&memory, *scalar)?,
    )),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::EcMulGenerator { scalar } => {
        let g: EccPoint<embedded::Affine> = std
            .ecc_chip()
            .assign_fixed(layouter, embedded::Affine::generator())?;
        let scalar = std.ecc_chip().convert(layouter, idx(&memory, *scalar)?)?;
        let b = std.ecc_chip().msm(layouter, &[scalar], &[g])?;
        mem_push(b.x(), &mut memory)?;
        mem_push(b.y(), &mut memory)?;
    }


## hash\_to\_curve

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"hash_to_curve"`, `"inputs"`, Index[] }

**Binary:** 0x0b inputs:???

Hashes a sequence of field elements to an embedded curve point.

**Outputs:** Two elements, `c_x` and `c_y`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::HashToCurve { inputs } => {
        let inputs = inputs
            .iter()
            .map(|var| idx(&memory, *var))
            .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?;
        memory.extend(from_point(hash_to_curve(&inputs)))
    }

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::HashToCurve { inputs } => {
        let inputs = inputs
            .iter()
            .map(|input| idx(&memory, *input).cloned())
            .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?;
        let (x, y) = std.hash_to_curve(layouter, &inputs)?;
        mem_push(x, &mut memory)?;
        mem_push(y, &mut memory)?;
    }


## less_than

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"less_than"`, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index, `"bits"`: u32 }

**Binary:** 0x19 a:u32 b:u32 bits:u32

Checks if `a` < `b`, interpreting both as `bits`-bit unsigned integers.  UB if
`a` or `b` exceed `bits`.

**Outputs:** One boolean output `a < b`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::LessThan { a, b, bits } => memory.push(
        (from_bits(idx_bits(&memory, *a, Some(*bits))?.into_iter())
            < from_bits(idx_bits(&memory, *b, Some(*bits))?.into_iter()))
        .into(),
    ),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::LessThan { a, b, bits } => {
        // Adding mod 2 to meet library constraint that this is even
        // Hidden req that this is >= 4
        let bit = std.lower_than(
            layouter,
            idx(&memory, *a)?,
            idx(&memory, *b)?,
            u32::max(*bits + *bits % 2, 4),
        )?;
        mem_push(std.convert(layouter, &bit)?, &mut memory)?;
    }


## load_imm

One output.  Extends the memory with an immediate field value.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"load_imm"`, `"imm"`: Fr??? }

**Binary:** 0x0c imm:???

**Rehearsal semantics:** the memory is extended with the field value *imm*.

**Circuit semantics:** a wire is created carrying the field value *imm*.  The
memory is extended with this wire.

## mul

One output.  Multiples a pair of field values in the prime field.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"mul"`, `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x12 a:u32 b:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field values at indexes *a* and *b* are read from
the memory.  The memory is extended with the result of multiplying them in the
prime field.

**Circuit semantics:** the wires at indexes *a* and *b* are read from the
memory.  A `mul` gate is built using the inputs at *a* and *b*.  The memory is
extended with the output wire of the `mul` gate.

## neg

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"neg"`, `"a"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x13 a:u32

Negates `a` in the prime field.

**Outputs:** One output `-a`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::Neg { a } => memory.push(-idx(&memory, *a)?),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::Neg { a } => mem_push(std.neg(layouter, idx(&memory, *a)?)?, &mut memory)?,


## not

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"not"`, `"a"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x17 a:u32

Boolean not gate.  NOTE: This gate is never emitted by the compiler.

**Outputs:** One output `!a`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::Not { a } => memory.push((!idx_bool(&memory, *a)?).into()),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::Not { a } => mem_push(lnot(std, layouter, idx(&memory, *a)?)?, &mut memory)?,


## output

No outputs as an instruction, despite the name.  A value in memory is recorded
as an output from the circuit.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"output"`, `"var"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x0e var:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** the field value at *var* is read from the memory.  The
vector of circuit outputs is extended with this value.

**Circuit semantics:** the wire at *var* is read from the memory.  The vector of
circuit outputs is extended with this wire.

## persistent_hash

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"persistent_hash"`, `"alignment"`: Alignment, `"inputs"`: Index[] }

**Binary:** 0x1d alignment:??? inputs:???

Calls a long-term hash function on a sequence of items with a given alignment

**Outputs:** One output, `H(inputs)`, in the binary format.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::PersistentHash { alignment, inputs } => {
        let inputs = inputs
            .iter()
            .map(|i| idx(&memory, *i))
            .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?;
        let value = alignment.parse_field_repr(&inputs).ok_or_else(|| {
            error!("Inputs did not match alignment (inputs: {inputs:?}, alignment: {alignment:?})");
            anyhow!("Inputs did not match alignment (inputs: {inputs:?}, alignment: {alignment:?})")
        })?;
        let mut repr = Vec::new();
        ValueReprAlignedValue(value).binary_repr(&mut repr);
        trace!(bytes = ?repr, "bytes decoded out-of-circuit");
        let hash = persistent_hash(&repr);
        memory.push(hash.field_vec()[0]);
    }

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::PersistentHash { alignment, inputs } => {
        let inputs = inputs
            .iter()
            .map(|i| idx(&memory, *i).cloned())
            .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?;
        let bytes = fab_decode_to_bytes(std, layouter, alignment, &inputs)?;
        let res_bytes = std.sha256(layouter, &bytes)?;
        mem_push(assemble_bytes(std, layouter, &res_bytes)?, &mut memory)?;
    }


## pi_skip

No outputs.  This is an instruction that tells the ZKIR evaluator whether a
public input corresponds to one that was produced by the off-chain execution of
the circuit or not.  Every `declare_pub_input` instruction should have a
`pi_skip` that covers it occurring later in the instruction sequence.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"pi_skip"`, `"guard"`: Maybe<Index>, `"count"`: u32 }

**Binary:** 0x07 guard:??? count:u32

**Rehearsal semantics:** if the instruction has a *guard*, then the field value
at index *guard* is read from the memory.  If there is a guard, the operation's
behavior is undefined if the field value is not `0` or `1`.  There are two
cases:

- **there is no guard or the guard's field value is `1`:** this represents an
  unconditionally produced public input or one that was produced by a
  conditional branch that was taken during the circuit's off-chain execution.
  The most recent *count* public inputs are compared to the ones in the proof
  preimage from the current public input index minus *count* up to the current
  public input index.  The operation fails if any of these values are not equal.
  The public input skip vector is extended with `None` (no count) indicating
  that the public inputs corresponding to this `pi_skip` were not skipped.
  
- **the guard's field value is `0`:** this represents a public input that would
  have been produced in a conditional branch that was not taken during the
  circuit's off-chain execution.  The current public input index is decremented
  by *count*.  The public input skip vector is extended with the *count*,
  indicating that the public inputs corresponding to this `pi_skip` were
  skipped.

**Circuit semantics:** nothing is done for this instruction, it is a no-op.

## private_input

One output.  Optionally retrieves a private input from the private transcript.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"private_input"`, `"guard"`: Maybe<Index> }

**Binary:** 0x1b guard:???

**Rehearsal semantics:** if the instruction has a *guard*, then the field value
at index *guard* is read from the memory.  If there is a guard, the operation's
behavior is undefined if the field value is not `0` or `1`.  There are two
cases:

- **there is no guard or the guard's field value is `1`:** this represents an
  unconditionally produced private input or one that was produced by a
  conditional branch that was taken during the circuit's off-chain execution.
  The rehearsal phase maintains a current index into the proof preimage's
  private inputs.  The memory is extended with the value of the current private
  input and the current index is incremented.
  
- **the guard's field value is `0`:** this represents a private input that would
  have been produced in a conditional branch that was not taken during the
  circuit's off-chain execution.  The memory is extended with the field value
  `0` as a dummy value.

**Circuit semantics:** the expected private input is read from the memory that
was produced by the rehearsal phase.  If there is a *guard*, the wire at *guard*
is read from the memory and a constraint is added that either the guard value is
non-zero or else the expected private input is zero.  The memory is extended
with a wire containing the private input computed by the rehearsal phase.

## public_input

One output.  Optionally retrieves a public output from the public transcript.

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"public_input"`, `"guard"`: Maybe<Index> }

**Binary:** 0x1a guard:???

**Rehearsal semantics:** the same as `private_input` except that the instruction
reads from the proof preimage's public outputs and updates the current index
into the public outputs.

**Circuit semantics:** exactly the same as `private_input` (the expected value
is found in the memory computed during the rehearsal phase).

## reconstitute_field

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"reconstitute_field"`, `"divisor"`: Index, `"modulus"`: Index, `"bits"`: u32 }

**Binary:** 0x1c divisor:u32 modulus:u32 bits:u32

Takes two inputs, `divisor` and `modulus`, and outputs `divisor << bits |
modulus`, guaranteeing that the result does not overflow the field size, and
that `modulus < (1 << bits)`. Inverse of `DivModPowerOfTwo`.

**Outputs:** One.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::ReconstituteField {
        divisor,
        modulus,
        bits,
    } => {
        if *bits as usize > FR_BYTES_STORED * 8 {
            bail!("Excessive bit count");
        }
        let fr_max = Fr::from(-1);
        let max_bits = idx_bits(&[fr_max], 0, None)?;
        let modulus_bits = idx_bits(&memory, *modulus, Some(*bits))?;
        let divisor_bits = idx_bits(&memory, *divisor, Some(FR_BITS as u32 - *bits))?;
        let cmp = modulus_bits
            .iter()
            .chain(divisor_bits.iter())
            .rev()
            .zip(max_bits[..FR_BITS].iter().rev())
            .map(|(ab, max)| ab.cmp(max))
            .fold(
                Ordering::Equal,
                |prefix, local| if prefix.is_eq() { local } else { prefix },
            );
        if cmp.is_gt() {
            bail!("Reconstituted element overflows field");
        }
        let power = (0..*bits).fold(Fr::from(1), |acc, _| Fr::from(2) * acc);
        memory.push(power * idx(&memory, *divisor)? + idx(&memory, *modulus)?);
    }

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::ReconstituteField {
        divisor,
        modulus,
        bits,
    } => {
        let divisor = idx(&memory, *divisor)?.clone();
        let modulus = idx(&memory, *modulus)?.clone();
        let reconstituted_value = match &workbench {
            ProofWorkbench::Dry => Value::unknown(),
            ProofWorkbench::Mock => Value::known(Default::default()),
            ProofWorkbench::Live(preproc) => {
                let idx = memory.len();
                if preproc.memory.len() < idx + 1 {
                    return Err(ProofError::Synthesis);
                }
                Value::known(preproc.memory[idx])
            }
        };
        let reconstituted = std.assign(layouter, reconstituted_value)?;
        let divisor_bits = std.assigned_to_le_bits(
            layouter,
            &divisor,
            Some(FR_BITS - *bits as usize),
            *bits == 0,
        )?;
        let modulus_bits = std.assigned_to_le_bits(
            layouter,
            &modulus,
            Some(*bits as usize),
            *bits as usize >= FR_BITS,
        )?;
        let reconstituted_bits =
            std.assigned_to_le_bits(layouter, &reconstituted, None, true)?;
        for (a, b) in modulus_bits
            .iter()
            .chain(divisor_bits.iter())
            .zip(reconstituted_bits.iter())
        {
            let a: AssignedCell<outer::Scalar, outer::Scalar> =
                std.convert(layouter, a)?;
            let b: AssignedCell<outer::Scalar, outer::Scalar> =
                std.convert(layouter, b)?;
            std.assert_equal(layouter, &a, &b)?;
        }
        mem_push(reconstituted, &mut memory)?;
    }


## test_eq

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"test_eq"`: `"a"`: Index, `"b"`: Index }

**Binary:** 0x10 a:u32 b:u32

Tests if `a` and `b` are equal.

**Outputs:** One boolean output, `a == b`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::TestEq { a, b } => memory.push((idx(&memory, *a)? == idx(&memory, *b)?).into()),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::TestEq { a, b } => {
        let bit = std.is_equal(layouter, idx(&memory, *a)?, idx(&memory, *b)?)?;
        mem_push(std.convert(layouter, &bit)?, &mut memory)?;
    }


## transient_hash

**JSON:** { `"op"`: `"transient_hash"`, `"inputs"`: Index[] }

**Binary:** 0x0f inputs:???

Calls a circuit-friendly hash function on a sequence of items.

**Outputs:** One output, `H(inputs)`.

**Rehearsal semantics:**

    I::TransientHash { inputs } => memory.push(transient_hash(
        &inputs
            .iter()
            .map(|i| idx(&memory, *i))
            .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?,
    )),

**Circuit semantics:**

    I::TransientHash { inputs } => mem_push(
        std.poseidon(
            layouter,
            &inputs
                .iter()
                .map(|inp| idx(&memory, *inp).cloned())
                .collect::<Result<Vec<_>, _>>()?,
        )?,
        &mut memory,
    )?,
